Data Source: Lyft Bikes and Scooters, LLC (“Bikeshare”)
License: Bikeshare hereby grants to you a non-exclusive, royalty-free, limited, perpetual license to access, reproduce,
analyze, copy, modify, distribute in your product or service and use the Data for any lawful purpose.
Data weblink: https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html
Data licence Weblink: https://www.divvybikes.com/data-license-agreement

Business Task: Analyse how do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently? To maximizing the number of annual members.

Ride Length (duration) Analysis.
mean: 1232.143
Median: 630
Max: 2483235
Min: 0

[MAX]
casual	2483235			
member	93594			

[MEAN]
casual	1901.1018			
member	770.2833

Summary: the ride length durations of casual bikers are much larger then member bikers.
+ 2 visualizations.

Original business task/question.

How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?
By analysing the average number of rides of casual vs member bikers binned by weekdays,
the following facts are clear:
a). member bikers use their bikes mostly to commute to work in weekdays and casual bikers use 
bikes with low frequency in weekdays.
b). in weekends both casual and members use bikes for relaxation or exercising purposes with equal 
frequency. 

Suggested business strategy optimization: Levy a small penalty / excess fee for weekend casual bikers, or impose
other restrictions on casual bikers in weekends. This will free up more bikes for members and
generate more revenue and may increase member numbers.

By analysing the average trip duration of rides of casual vs member bikers binned by weekdays,
the following facts are clear:
a). member bikers use their bikes mostly to commute to work in weekdays and use bikes for a much
shorter period then casual bikers.
b). in weekends casual bikers use bikes for long durations but members use bikes for short durations.

Suggested business strategy optimization: Impose a restriction on the duration of rides or casual bikers.
This will free up more bikes for members and generate more revenue and may increase member numbers.



